README.md, before:

# Authors
 * Benjamin Kellermann <Benjamin dot Kellermann at gmx in Germany>
 * a lot of contributers of small code pieces

# License
GNU AGPL v3 or higher (see file License)

# Requirements
 * ruby >=1.8
 * git >=1.6.5 (preferred and default setting) or bzr
 * ruby-gettext (for localization)
 * gettext, potool, make (optional, if you want to generate localization files)
 
# Installation
1. Place this application into a directory where cgi-scripts are evaluated.
2. If you want to change some configuration, state it in the file `config.rb`
   (see `config_sample.rb` for help)
   to start with a default configuration.
3. The webserver needs the permission to write into the directory 
4. You need `.mo` files in order to use localisations. 
   You have 2 possibilities:
   1. Run this small script to fetch the files from the main server:

      ```sh
      cd $DUDLE_INSTALLATION_PATH
      for i in locale/??; do
      	wget -O $i/dudle.mo https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/locale/`basename $i`/dudle.mo
      done
      ```
   2. Build them on your own. This requires gettext,
      ruby-gettext, potool, and make to be installed.

      ```sh
      sudo aptitude install gettext potool make
      make
      ```
5. In order to let access control work correctly, the webserver needs 
   auth_digest support. It therefore may help to type:

   ```sh
   sudo a2enmod auth_digest
   ```
6. In order to get atom-feed support you need ruby-ratom to be
   installed. E.g.:

   ```sh
   sudo aptitude install rubygems ruby-dev libxml2-dev zlib1g-dev
   sudo gem install ratom
   ```
7. for RUBY 1.9 you need to add

   ```sh
   SetEnv RUBYLIB $DUDLE_INSTALLATION_PATH
   ```
   to your .htaccess
8. to make titles with umlauts working you need to set the encoding e.g.
   by adding

   ```sh
   SetEnv RUBYOPT "-E UTF-8:UTF-8"
   ```
   to your .htaccess
9. It might be the case, that you have to set some additional Variables
   in your .htaccess:

   	```sh
    SetEnv GIT_AUTHOR_NAME="http user"
    SetEnv GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL=foo@example.org
    SetEnv GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
    SetEnv GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
    ```
10. Try to open http://$YOUR_SERVER/check.cgi to check if your config
    seems to work.
 
# Docker image
There are two docker image available
 *  https://hub.docker.com/r/fonk/dudle/ with the code from here https://github.com/fonk/docker-dudle
 *  https://github.com/jpkorva/dudle-docker

# Pimp your Installation
 * If you want to create your own Stylesheet, you just have to put it in
   the folder `$DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/css/`. Afterwards you may config this
   one to be the default Stylesheet. Examples can be found here:
     https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/css/
   This is a bazaar repository as well, so you may branch it if you want…

   ```sh
   cd $DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/css
   bzr branch https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/css/ .
   ```
   Send me your Stylesheet if you want it to appear at 
   https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de
 * If you want to extend the functionality you might want to place a file
   `main.rb` in `$DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/extension/$YOUR_EXTENSION/main.rb`
   Examples can be found here:
     https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/unstable/extensions/
     which again are repositories ;--) e.g.:

     ```sh
     cd $DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/dudle/extensions/
     bzr branch https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/unstable/extensions/10_participate/
     bzr branch https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/unstable/extensions/symcrypt/
     ```

# Translators
If you set `$DUDLE_POEDIT_AUTO` to your lang, poedit will launch
automatically when building the application. E.g.:

```sh
export DUDLE_POEDIT_AUTO=fr
bzr pull
make # will launch poedit if new french strings are to be translated
```

Commit message:

add hint to ErrorDocument directives in .htaccess
Closes: #19

README.md, after:

# Authors
 * Benjamin Kellermann <Benjamin dot Kellermann at gmx in Germany>
 * a lot of contributers of small code pieces

# License
GNU AGPL v3 or higher (see file License)

# Requirements
 * ruby >=1.8
 * git >=1.6.5 (preferred and default setting) or bzr
 * ruby-gettext (for localization)
 * gettext, potool, make (optional, if you want to generate localization files)
 
# Installation
1. Place this application into a directory where cgi-scripts are evaluated.
2. If you want to change some configuration, state it in the file `config.rb`
   (see `config_sample.rb` for help)
   to start with a default configuration.
3. The webserver needs the permission to write into the directory 
4. You need `.mo` files in order to use localisation.
   You have 2 possibilities:
   1. Run this small script to fetch the files from the main server:

      ```sh
      cd $DUDLE_INSTALLATION_PATH
      for i in locale/??; do
      	wget -O $i/dudle.mo https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/locale/`basename $i`/dudle.mo
      done
      ```
   2. Build them on your own. This requires gettext,
      ruby-gettext, potool, and make to be installed.

      ```sh
      sudo aptitude install gettext potool make
      make
      ```
5. In order to let access control work correctly, the webserver needs 
   auth_digest support. It therefore may help to type:

   ```sh
   sudo a2enmod auth_digest
   ```
6. In order to get atom-feed support you need ruby-ratom to be
   installed. E.g.:

   ```sh
   sudo aptitude install rubygems ruby-dev libxml2-dev zlib1g-dev
   sudo gem install ratom
   ```
7. for RUBY 1.9 you need to add

   ```sh
   SetEnv RUBYLIB $DUDLE_INSTALLATION_PATH
   ```
   to your .htaccess
8. to make titles with umlauts working you need to set the encoding e.g.
   by adding

   ```sh
   SetEnv RUBYOPT "-E UTF-8:UTF-8"
   ```
   to your .htaccess
9. It might be the case, that you have to set some additional Variables
   in your .htaccess:

   	```sh
    SetEnv GIT_AUTHOR_NAME="http user"
    SetEnv GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL=foo@example.org
    SetEnv GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
    SetEnv GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
    ```
10. If you installed dudle to a subdirectory (i.e. http://$YOUR_SERVER/$SOMEDIR/...),
    than you want to adopt the ErrorDocument directives in your .htaccess.
    (You need an absolute path here!)
11. Try to open http://$YOUR_SERVER/check.cgi to check if your config
    seems to work.
 
# Docker image
There are two docker image available
 *  https://hub.docker.com/r/fonk/dudle/ with the code from here https://github.com/fonk/docker-dudle
 *  https://github.com/jpkorva/dudle-docker

# Pimp your Installation
 * If you want to create your own Stylesheet, you just have to put it in
   the folder `$DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/css/`. Afterwards you may config this
   one to be the default Stylesheet. Examples can be found here:
     https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/css/
   This is a bazaar repository as well, so you may branch it if you want…

   ```sh
   cd $DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/css
   bzr branch https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/css/ .
   ```
   Send me your Stylesheet if you want it to appear at 
   https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de
 * If you want to extend the functionality you might want to place a file
   `main.rb` in `$DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/extension/$YOUR_EXTENSION/main.rb`
   Examples can be found here:
     https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/unstable/extensions/
     which again are repositories ;--) e.g.:

     ```sh
     cd $DUDLE_HOME_FOLDER/dudle/extensions/
     bzr branch https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/unstable/extensions/10_participate/
     bzr branch https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/unstable/extensions/symcrypt/
     ```

# Translators
If you set `$DUDLE_POEDIT_AUTO` to your lang, poedit will launch
automatically when building the application. E.g.:

```sh
export DUDLE_POEDIT_AUTO=fr
bzr pull
make # will launch poedit if new french strings are to be translated
```
